Vocabulary is a key building block of language. As such, measuring vocabulary knowledge in an accurate manner provides crucial information regarding, for example, a learner’s progress towards becoming an expert user of the target language. In studying and measuring vocabulary knowledge, researchers need to consider two inextricably related issues: firstly, how they are measuring vocabulary knowledge, and secondly, what knowledge they are measuring. Traditionally, the field of vocabulary research and teaching has relied on offline measures of vocabulary knowledge, such as multiple choice, translation, fill-in-the-blank, and matching tests. Offline tests are a convenient way of measuring vocabulary knowledge because they provide information about learners’ ability to recognize or retrieve the form or meaning of a word, often with no time restrictions (hence the name offline). More recently, offline measures are increasingly being used in conjunction with a qualitatively different type of measure, known as online measure. Online measures typically involve measuring learners’ lexical knowledge during language processing (hence the name online) when there are real time restrictions.

A daily-life analogy of online and offline measurements would be a case of watching football (or soccer). One could watch a match live (i.e., in real time) in the stadium or on TV. In that case, one would view the detailed happenings of the match as they unfold, such as how a particular player scores a goal, and who has a great shot but misses. In other words, the real-time watching allows the viewer to know the dynamics of the match, similarly to researchers investigating language processing using online measures. In contrast, researchers using offline measures are primarily interested in the overall outcomes or products of vocabulary knowledge and perhaps less in the fine-grained details of the process (or at least, their instruments do not provide this information). In our analogy, this would be someone simply scanning the headlines of the sports section of a newspaper in order to know the result of the football match, and perhaps the standing of a given team in the league after the weekend.

Measuring vocabulary knowledge is an integral part of studying vocabulary. Whether the goal is to compare different teaching methods, or track vocabulary growth over time, researchers or teachers need to have a measure of their students’ vocabulary knowledge. Most commonly this measure will be a paper-and-pencil or computer-based test that involves word recognition (e.g., multiple choice, matching) or recall or retrieval (e.g., translation, fill-in-the-blank). Therefore, much of what we know about the learning and teaching of vocabulary in another language derives from offline measures of vocabulary knowledge. These tests measure explicit-declarative word knowledge, because learners could declare their vocabulary knowledge out loud (e.g., To drive is to use a car) if they were asked to. Given the predominance of offline measures in vocabulary research and teaching, it is perhaps no surprise that Nation’s (2013) framework of vocabulary knowledge, which is the most comprehensive framework of vocabulary knowledge in second language (L2) studies to date, is also geared heavily towards explicit-declarative knowledge (see Table 28.1). That is, although Nation’s framework greatly broadened the scope of what vocabulary knowledge entails, the default approach to how vocabulary knowledge is measured is still very much offline and declarative. Here, I aim to expand and explore the how dimension, so teachers and researchers may opt for more diverse and comprehensive measures of vocabulary knowledge in their work.

Offline measures of vocabulary knowledge are not without limitations. Most of all, these tests are separate or divorced from actual language performance. Recognizing or being able to recall a word’s meaning or form on a paper-based test is not the same as recognizing or recalling the word during interaction with another speaker. Actual language usage is often characterized by a certain amount of time pressure, which makes the task of word recognition or retrieval more demanding. Language users must access their lexical knowledge rapidly so they can focus their efforts on larger meaning units. This requirement of quick lexical access could also partly explain why listening, where learners have little control over the speed of the incoming speech stream, is claimed to be the most difficult foreign language skill to acquire (e.g., Vandergrift & Goh, 2012). To capture these aspects of vocabulary knowledgein-action more fully, researchers can measure not only learners’ explicit-declarative knowledge, but also their automatized explicit, procedural, or implicit knowledge of vocabulary; that is, how easily people can retrieve words from their mental dictionaries and how well the words are connected in their minds. Thanks to the advance of technology, new methods and techniques have made it possible to ask and answer new questions about the non-declarative aspects of vocabulary knowledge. The finer distinctions between these different knowledge types (i.e., automatic knowledge, procedural knowledge, tacit-implicit knowledge) are still being sorted out in the literature. In reviewing different methodologies, I will therefore adopt the same terminology as the authors of primary studies have used, bypassing subtle theoretical distinctions that may exist between the different knowledge types. The overarching idea is that there is a type of non-declarative knowledge of vocabulary – which researchers variously refer to as automatic knowledge, procedural knowledge, or tacit-implicit knowledge that can be assessed by online measurements.

Online measures are often about how long it takes a participant to do something. Consequently, most online measures used in the field of Second Language Acquisition (SLA) offer some kind of reaction time data. The processes that are studied with these reaction time measures tend to be very fast, in the order of tenths and hundredths of a second, and therefore their length is normally measured in milliseconds (msec). For example, the average time it takes to retrieve the meaning of a word is one-fourth of a second, or 250 msec (e.g., Inhoff & Rayner, 1986). Consequently, the fine-grained details offered by online measurements can reveal the dynamics of language processing as in watching a football match live. Furthermore, these online measures add a new dimension to our understanding of vocabulary knowledge, by illuminating how well learners can access their knowledge of different aspects of a word. In the following overview, I will therefore link the different methodologies back to Nation’s (2013) framework and, in so doing, expand it by adding a whole new dimension (see Table 28.2 later in the chapter). As such, this chapter does not only serve as an introduction to new methods and techniques which could tap into a learner’s implicit, automatized explicit, or procedural vocabulary knowledge; it also invites readers and researchers to see new meanings of vocabulary knowledge. This could potentially inform a more usage-focused teaching practice and, I hope, inspire more research that examines the lexical iceberg in full – that is, both conscious knowledge (the tip) and unconscious knowledge (the part underwater).

In the second section of the chapter, I will review three key online methodologies in the context of vocabulary knowledge and processing. These methodologies are, first, general reaction time measures in, for example, a lexical decision task, where the participant decides whether a letter string (or a spoken item) forms a word or not; second, the coefficient of variability, a measure derived from reaction times; and, third, eye-movement registration or eye tracking, which tracks the eyes’ dwell times in different locations. For each method, the discussion will start with introducing how it works and what type of information researchers can obtain from it, followed by a general overview of vocabulary studies that have used the methodology. A couple of representative studies will be highlighted and reviewed. In the third section of the chapter, I present an extension of Nation’s framework and provide directions for future research to measure new dimensions of vocabulary knowledge. Interested readers will be pointed to some further reading and related topics in the fourth section.


