I exercise because I have to.
There are some problems.
We have questions, such as how it happened.
I’m going to think about it.
He said he’d come of course.
After a few drinks, she started to dance.
Well, you could email me at least.
She had such a strange sense of humor. 
It’s fine, but, I mean, is it worth the price?
They go camping a lot in the summer.
Children, rather than adults, tend to learn quickly.
Park it so that the wheels are curbed.
I like to work out a little before dinner.
There was a bit of drama today at the office.
She jogs as well as swims. 
The researchers tried several approaches, in fact.
To be honest, I’m likely to forget.
He went on for a while before stopping for lunch.
Obama is to address the media this afternoon.
A number of concerns were raised.
Do you have any kids at all?
They walked together as if no time had passed.
It used to snow much more often.
The message was to be transmitted worldwide.
Not only was it cheap, it was delicious.
He would defend those who had no voice.
The police had several issues to deal with.
Excessive smoking can lead to heart disease.
It’s sort of why I’m here.
He made the following remarks.
We shared a room in order to reduce costs
I don’t know what he has got planned.
You have got to try this salad.
The whole thing was set up beforehand.
There was some confusion as to its whereabouts.
I like it as well.
Based on the reports, it seems it was an accident.
It was not as easy to carry out without funding.
No one was sure exactly why it took place there.
I tend to think it’s actually a political matter.
Many people believe it is due to global warming.
I fail to see the humor in all this.
The good thing is that they still have each other.
What is your limit, in terms of price?
I will speak to no one about this.
She dropped by to pick up her friend.
Up to twenty people may be interviewed for the job.
Not a single idea emerged from the meeting.
Fortunately, it is no longer a concern now.
Bargains can be found if you know what to look for.
What did he say last night?
He was tired and as a result not very aware.
The house was well located in addition.
That kid needs to work on his attitude.
I’m thinking about changing careers.
That holds true for even the governor for instance.
I don’t worry about it too much.
And the problem you see is with awareness-raising.
There’s nothing in particular wrong with it.
They need a couple of minutes still.
He can go instead of me.
But we can come back to that later.
It’s not what it looks like.
How did you find out?
She pointed out that it was getting late.
Are there any others, apart from him?
Hard times call for tough measures.
Did you manage to get in touch at all?
He had a thing or two to drink, then left.
It’s a further reason to reconsider the project.
It’s supposed to come out on Friday.
They can’t be expected to just sit there and wait.
The new board sought to find alternative solutions.
You can’t imagine what I’m going through.
It seems to work, but what of the long term effects?
Excessive criticism resulted in feelings of animosity.
It’s yours, as long as you pay that is.
I can’t even though it looks easy enough.
Eventually, a range of events changed that.
The latter may still be a challenge.
I had to make sure before I opened the door.
You can’t just let the kids take over.
What does it consist of?
As soon as he can he will call you back.
I was busy at the time.
On the other hand, the business did make a profit.
You did this on your own?
If it’s all right I think I’ll head off to bed.
All baggage is subject to inspection.
He is only six years old, after all.
She did not want to say anything in front of the kids.
I think it has something to do with physics.
Brochures went out to prospective buyers.
She means a great deal to me.
We can stop for lunch on the way.
It makes no difference as long as it’s done.
Any questions so far?
She hasn’t but she ought to.
They have a lot going on at the moment.
He smiled then, as though remembering a joke.
We came to see it for what it was.
Along with his dog, the cat slowly stopped eating.
He hasn’t yet but may well try before long.
There was no way to get out of work that Friday.
The workshop will be followed by time for questions.
It’s great in that there are so many restaurants.
It’s not the case that I don’t love him.
I don’t wish to take up more time than is necessary.
They’ll need to account for their actions.
She accomplished what she set out to do.
What are you thinking, as far as feasibility on this?
They spoke on issues concerned with culture.
Things were about to change.
I didn’t go, but I was supposed to.
My parents arrived, then John, his wife, and so on.
Come on, think about it!
You’d better think twice before taking on more work.
I’m trying to work out what it stands for.
The news was all over the web.
No one other than you could have come up with it.
In terms of colour, three out of five were silver.
How did it turn out?
She did more than just look after the finances.
At last we met over coffee last week.
And a variety of issues seemed to stall the process.
Not at first, but just the other day there was one.
A day or so later he called me back on my mobile.
I don’t know about you but I’m in favour. 
You can’t just give up.
When he got to the end he started to weep.
I found myself driving home.
It was easy getting up but the commute was awful.
He could simply not carry on.
If I could I’d go back and do it all over again.
But today I’d like to focus on something different.
I did it at once.
No matter what it takes.
We waited for hours in the queue to get on.
As a whole it’s OK.
There was nothing she could do in practice.
By the time dinner started there were none left.
Lots of them do travel during the winter months.
The priest was said to be missing.
You will in time.
The supermarket in turn will donate seven thousand.
Once again, this was completely unforeseen. 
I go there all the time.
She came on the basis that it would help her.
The windows are kind of fogged up.
I really got into what he was talking about.
He has no one else to rely on.
I could really go for a hamburger right now.
They aim to complete the project by the spring.
Hispanics make up a large part of the population.
It appeals to younger learners.
We ended up going anyway.
He just shook his head and laughed.
No more than five of them had auto insurance.
What time will we get back?
But what about tomorrow?
The groups are in other words conservative.
As for the promotion, there may be other options.
No one cared, not even when they saw the photos.
You’re entitled to your opinion.
Prior to the event, the organizers called the band.
You may choose to believe what the papers say.
She makes something like five grand a month.
He’s known to be like that.
Are you two at all in touch?
In the end it’s like what they say about horses.
I won’t stand in the way.
He doesn’t care for it very much in his tea.
In the event you change your mind, let me know.
They say it tastes like chicken.
Any so called rumors are as easily their fault.
You must also take into account the rush hour.
There was nothing in respect of drink.
The walls are made out of wood.
At the same time it may be worth it.
Next to his sister, he was the best looking of them.
The money turned up later.
They all had a different point of view.
There’s nothing to do at present.
It may take a while to get used to.
It depends on whether or not he comes on time.
There are systems in place to handle that.
She can and will no doubt improve over time.
I’m a full time fan of his music.
They managed to sort out everything on their own.
It’s funny in a way.
The sales clerk seemed distracted or something.
I’d like to apologize on behalf of the committee. 
He put it way over there.
In spite of all the work there were few alterations.
That’s it for today, I’m afraid.
It is in part the reason people come here.
Oh no not again.
Do you have anything special in mind?
There was some confusion with regard to payment.
They looked at one another for a few minutes.
The plan is as follows.
The above only underscores strength of the data.
To date there have been over nine instances.
I won’t go into what he said.
You don’t see too many like that one, I’ll tell you.
In the course of the discussion the manager left.
It’s more or less what we imagined I suppose.
There are many short term gains to be had.
The study is aimed at exploring how people use it.
She went off without even saying goodbye.
In case you’re wondering, this isn’t my natural color.
There are simply no jobs out there right now.
He was led by his competitive drive above all.
More and more it’s about the customer.
Why don’t you have a look?
I don’t believe in corporal punishment.
There’s no better way to put it, I think.
It’s what these days the media call ‘viral’.
He was able to stay in charge while she was away.
I feel like eating out.
I walked up to the window and paused.
Haven’t you ever heard of manners?
It’s something we all wanted to take part in.
The plan was fine in so far as time and transport.
She can take it on part time.
It’s something we can all look forward to.
The film was not a horror as such.
It’s bound to be better next time.
It won’t turn on.
He’s set to arrive today.
I’d like to move on if I may.
The inside was amazing in contrast.
We can’t at this stage.
She all but sent him chocolates and flowers.
It is above all what people care most about.
She was happy to be rid of it.
It’s not due till tomorrow in any case.
And it’s thanks to her research that we know that.
The problem won’t just go away.
I call on you once more my fellow citizens.
It was due yesterday? Oh well.
I’d like to follow up on what that gentleman said.
I don’t know, but I would say at least twenty.
It was found to be of little use in battle.
I haven’t seen it but it’s meant to be his best so far.
If you can hang on for just a second.
The idea turned into something amazing.
There’s something about her I find interesting.
I thought they’d be here by now.
Do you think so?
Why don’t you go ahead and call him again?
It was expected that he would bring about change.
They had better listen.
The plan was execute in accordance with municipal guidelines.
He called on his members of staff for advice.
It can be slightly frustrating at times.
I’m with you all the way.
In effect it was like being in space.
It’s something you can’t afford to miss.
I can’t stand the sight of it, to tell you the truth.
It’s something you should do in advance.
There are no barriers on the part of the government.
Did you manage to bring up the holiday pay?
I was hungry by the time we took off.
He cluttered his desk so as to appear busy.
Some people just want to take advantage.
Short of calling the doctor, I don’t know what to do.
She has over the years visited many cities.
It’s plugged in but it won’t switch on.
We have by no means concluded the matter.
I could hardly wait for the weekend.
Is that the best you could come up with?
The book in question was published last year.
He couldn’t see how it got there in the first place.
The bicycle proved to be of immense value.
What they have in common is their stamina.
No matter what they say, it’s down to you now.
At this point there’s no telling who might win.
The car in itself wasn’t enough incentive. 
The former can actually require much more money.
If only I’d known sooner.
The package is yet to arrive.
I’ll leave it up to you if that’s all right.
The challenge or whatever is doing it under budget.
The responsibility was expected to be handed over.
In the light of the results, we delayed the study.
In the same way, Apple appeals to the young.
I don’t go out that much.
The extent to which the preceding can be asserted is largely dependent on what emerges in the study.
He’s actually been studying for some time now.
In return I’d like to present you with this gift.
The children were bored to death.
The decision was made on the grounds of safety.
He didn’t? Oh dear.
She paid in full.
Are you on board with the decision?
It is to some extent what is considered standard.
What are you, some kind of genius?
Keep up if you can.
You have no idea.
Anything greater than five is fine.
This happens to be my first conference.
The congress held that it was acceptable.
Faced with defeat, he changed tactics.
Unfortunately, doing so also meant facing traffic.
We set off at noon.
The group put forward several other proposals.
He does come round from time to time.
He hasn’t the means to get there.
And they haven’t been the same ever since.
Am I finished? Just about.
Better now, as opposed to what?
The protests gave rise to new violence.
They were thinking on a large scale.
Doesn’t it make sense to do it that way?
It was possible to achieve by means of coercion. 
The employees were in short tired of it.
He’s a bit of a film fanatic.
They did keep in touch after they broke up.
I went over budget, but then I expected I would.
Why is this all too familiar?
The authorities put up a sign to notify the public.
You need to find something you’re good at.
A little bit of compassion can go a long way.
Unfortunately, the player never amounted to much.
He did attend university, but not for long.
The operation is run by two college students.
I’ll have to think some more before deciding.
In the absence of truth, there is only conjecture.
We have all sorts of time left.
I need to get on with my work.
It’s no good sitting there – you have to type.
That’s yet another day gone by with nothing done.
Her input was key to the project’s success.
It hasn’t arrived, I’m afraid.
You cannot undo that which has already been done.
If so, you may want to consider Greece.
The best time is right now.
She reconsidered in view of her children.
I can explain in detail.
The artist’s angst is reflected in her painting.
He said no such thing.
I have nothing but respect for her.
They quit in the face of the media scrutiny.
It can be developed such that it does not interfere.
Most commuters drive out of pure necessity.
The people next door didn’t seem to mind.
It got to the point I couldn’t breathe.  
The mouse made its way across the field.
It was well in hand by then.
Did you get to try the cheese?
By the way, what day is the wedding?
The weather was by contrast a pleasant surprise.
You need to get milk before you run out.
You can in principle.
It does nothing to add to the scenery.
I’m not convinced as yet.
There’s no reason to put passers by at risk.
She made a mere penny per shirt.
Dogs have been shown to help.
On the one hand, it’s cheap.
It was only by way of bribery that they managed.
I can’t wait to get on the road again.
It was designed bearing in mind environmental impact.
He’s just a bit old fashioned sometimes.
The house is for sale.
I don’t want any trouble or anything.
It is most likely the reason for the warming.
The other variables have been provided for.
Even so, it’s no way to treat a guest.
They happened to come across a map.
It is first of all what most people prefer.
We’re here now so we might as well.
The dinner was limited to seniors.
To me what matters is that it gets done.
Mind you, that’s one reason why I go there.
They went in two at a time.
I make it half past.
She had nothing to add with respect to the report.
The results are consistent with our hypothesis.
He lives way out in the country.
They work with third party software too.
The city is clean, contrary to popular belief.
Two dollars worth of wood was all he needed.
It took him a good six or seven years.
She never acted on that rage.
It seemed fine except that it was pink.
They carried on with their day to day tasks.
As usual he left it until the last minute.
Long before I could quit I was offered a promotion.
I gave up on that idea long ago.
The police, in conjunction with the fire department, managed to keep the crowd under control.
I try to keep up to date.
I can’t run let alone walk.
I do swim quite a lot.
It was her ‘chutzpah’ if you like that impressed.
He’s interesting to the extent that he knows a lot.
So far as I know it’s not the first time either.
It was no surprise given that it was her job.
The decision is in line with the department’s wishes.
It was acceptable on the whole. 
Do you care to comment at all?
We did not take account of the paperwork.
He said he had a meeting to go to or something like that.
We made use of the stopover.
I’m hopeless when it comes to goodbyes.
The victim filled in what was stolen.
For all his money, he does not seem very happy.
It’s a question of trust.
And he stayed there for life.
They managed to get away.
I’ll keep working on it in the meantime.
She’s something of a mathematics wiz.
I do play the odd jazz tune.
It’s little more than pageantry if you ask me.
Would you like tea?
We want to help children in need.
It’s just something I’ve always taken for granted.
In this respect, our study refutes earlier research.
It’s OK provided that he come up with the goods.
Even if you allow for inflation, the price increase still seems exhorbitant.
I took extra classes just to catch up.
Why don’t you have a go?
For the moment things seem stable.
They were laughing at the expense of the photo.
He put together the proposal in a matter of days.
He does karate and things like that, you see.
It was of little relevance, really.
I just couldn’t shut up.
It was completed as of June.
It might change over time.
They people have spoken, it would appear.
I thought of you the other day.
In theory that is why he went there.
Beaches are thought of as vacation spots.
It’s gone for good.
He’s strangely opposed to gun control.
To me it’s common sense.
He never bothered to reply.
It’s as good as gone.
I have proof to back up my story.
I’ll take care of this customer.
I can’t stand the sight of it.
I’ll go round asking if anyone wants any more.
Why don’t we just forget the whole thing?
At one time I thought that too.
Meanwhile, he decided to head to the hospital. 
The food was in a sense only part of the experience.
How much does he make on average?
Do you know your way round?
You can tell from the markings.
I dream of a life free from stress.
I like art and all that.
The party was a smash as it were.
What if we could fly?
There was a touch of sadness in her voice.
You’re better off without him.
That symbol used to stand for something.
I think the government’s to blame, really.
The bulk of it was done by noon.
Only a handful of them were actually awake.
It went well, but not at the outset.
She won by virtue of her superior intellect.
I won’t turn down such a great offer.
My parent don’t really get on very well.
Changes are already under way.
They stopped in the interest of time.
How long has it been on the market?
The rise in unemployment was by far the highest.
There is a degree of irony in the story.
Never mind that it’s my birthday today.
He was up and down the hall worrying about it.
Gesture is a form of expression in its own right.
Now it’s just a case of getting them to subscribe.
Boston is walkable, and San Francisco more so.
Men always come up to me first.
That means it’s midnight, in which case it’s closed.
Still no sign of him?
I saw him just as he left.
He exaggerated his points for the sake of effect.
I’m not in a position to comment right now.
We’ll see how things go in the weeks to come.
The group is backed by the drug trade.
He’s at best average.
The library holds a wealth of knowledge.
He drinks a lot and that sort of thing.
He could barely make out her signature.
They were finally able to come to terms with the change in weather.
I’m not very fond of it, to be honest.
It was written with a view to inspiring hope.
There was no turning back now.
Somehow they managed to get away with it.
No wonder he’s ranked first.
It was good for their overall well being.
How about tomorrow?
Two more to go.
They’ll get to it straight away.
Owing to his honesty, he was held in high esteem.
Sorry – we got held up on the M25.
He constantly looked to us for advice and support.
The countries laid out plans for a peace agreement.
They tood the jewellery, the laptops, the lot.
Freeways kept on being built.
You’d better make up your mind.
There were strange forces at work.
It all came about through a meeting back in April.