Foreign accent is a normal characteristic of L2 learning in adulthood. This realization has led to a wide-ranging scholarly consensus that the linguistic quality of L2 speech should be evaluated based on intelligibility, comprehensibility and communicative adequacy rather than L1-like accuracy. Given that not all linguistic errors equally impact successful comprehension and communication, an increasing number of studies have begun to advocate for combining subjective judgements of L2 oral proficiency with the notion of error gravity (Derwing & Munro, 2015 for comprehensibility; Foster & Wigglesworth, 2016 for weighted accuracy; Saito, Trofimovich, & Isaacs, 2017 for lexical appropriateness). Much of the attention especially in the area of L2 comprehensibility has been given to examining the phonological aspects most related to raters’ behaviours during global L2 speech evaluation (e.g., Kang, Rubin, & Pickering, 2010). By comparison, the lexical profiles of comprehensible and contextually-appropriate L2 speech are largely under-researched and as a consequence poorly understood. In the field of L2 vocabulary learning, recent evidence has indicated that collocational information (i.e., meaningful co-occurrence of multiple words) may be a relatively strong determiner of L2 speaking proficiency (e.g., Kyle & Crossley, 2015).

Interfacing perspectives in L2 speech and vocabulary, the current study explored the extent to which collocation association factors, operationalized via two different n-gram association measures (t-scores, Mutual Information), could predict the comprehensibility and lexical appropriateness judgements of Japanese learners’ L2 speech. Following methodological discussion and innovation in the precursor research (e.g., Saito, Webb, Trofimovich, & Isaacs, 2016a), raters assessed for the lexical quality of L2 speech by reading transcripts rather than listening to actual audio samples. The unique methodology here allowed us to further refine our understanding of the lexical correlates of L2 comprehensibility and appropriateness controlling for the influence of phonological accentedness.

According to usage-based accounts of SLA, language is formulaic in nature, and most linguistic information is stored in the form of multi-word units, or “chunks”. Through sufficient exposure in meaningful contexts, L2 leaners are thought to develop the ability to accurately, rapidly, and subconsciously access these chunks in response to specific contextual and linguistic cues (Ellis, 2012). Furthermore, it is believed that such formulaic bundles can spur morphosyntactic development through abstract, schematic analysis of the chunks’ constituent parts (Tomasello, 2003).

Corpus-based investigations have shown that a large proportion of oral discourse between and among L1 speakers (30-40%) is formulaic in nature (Biber, Johansson, Leech, Conrad, & Finegan, 1999; Erman & Warren, 2000; Leech, 2000). Second language users, on the other hand, have been observed to produce spontaneous speech that is comparatively lacking in the use of formulaic language, and often contains recurrent dysfluencies such as filled pauses (Foster, 2001). From this point of view, the attainment of collocational knowledge can be seen as instrumental to becoming a functional, communicatively successful L2 user (Siyanova-Chanturia & Martinez, 2015; Wray, 2000).

A precise definition of a collocation has been elusive in the L2 literature (Boers & Webb, 2018 for a concise review on the phraseology vs. corpus-based approaches to defining collocations). Following Baker, Hardie, and McEnery’s (2006) definition in corpus linguistics, this study defines collocation as “the phenomenon surrounding the fact that certain words are more likely to occur in combination with other words in certain contexts” (p. 36). This is inclusive in that it covers a range of multiword units with different degrees of transparency (e.g., “kick a ball” vs. “kick him out” vs. “kick the bucket”).

One corpus-based operationalization of collocations is n-gram frequency, i.e., how often continuous strings of n words (n ≥ 2) are used in a specific corpus (Biber, Conrad, & Cortes, 2004). However, the interpretation of raw n-gram frequency is complex, because counting the number of occurrence does not necessarily capture the actual use of multiple words in context. Raw n-gram frequency scores may include not only formulaic sequences (e.g., think and of), but also random co-occurrences of lexical items (e.g., think and chair). 2 It is crucial to take into account not only how often certain word combinations have appeared, but also the extent to which the constituent words associate with each other.

Two measures have been devised to index the strength of meaningful (rather than bychance) n-gram associations (for a comprehensive overview, see Gablasova, Brezina, & McEnery, 2017). First, t-scores mathematically represent the above-chance co-occurrence of n words without taking into account the frequency of individual words (for the details of the calculation procedure, see the Method section). Notably, t-scores favor the combination of high-frequency words, because they occur together in a corpus more often than low-frequency words. In essence, multiword units with higher t-scores comprise more frequent words, which are relatively concrete, meaningful and transparent in nature.

Importantly, the concept of t-scores does not necessarily reflect the strength of word partnerships. While high frequency words form a frequently-occurring collocation, they can also collocate with many other different words. In this sense, the strength of the partnership could be considered relatively weak. Mutual information (MI) scores, on the other hand, represent the relative exclusivity of word combinations, i.e., the statistical likelihood of n words occurring together with each other but not with any other word. Consequently, the calculation of MI favors lower-frequency words, because the number of partner words that they can collocate with is exclusively limited, resulting in relatively strong partnerships. In essence, n-grams with higher MI scores likely comprise low-frequent, abstract and complex words.3 

Previous research in L2 writing has revealed how different measures of association strength operate differently with beginner and advanced writing samples. It has been shown that lower-level production tends to feature high-frequency collocations (and consequently higher tscores), while higher-level writers employ low-frequency but strongly associated collocations (with higher MI scores) (Bestgen, 2017; Durrant & Schmitt, 2009; Kim, Crossley, & Kyle, 2018). Several studies have also demonstrated that certain collocation measures (MI-scores) are weakly but significantly correlated with global L2 writing quality (e.g., Kyle & Crossley, 2016 for r = .10-.20 in TOEFL Writing; Garner, Crossley, & Kyle, 2018 for r = .20-.30 in CEFR Writing).

When it comes to the lexical correlates of L2 oral proficiency, however, most of the existing studies have focused on the analyses of single-word units. The results of this body of literature indicate that most index categories (e.g., frequency) can explain only a small portion of the variance (<10%) in raters’ L2 speaking judgements, e.g., based on ACTFL (Crossley, Salsbury, McNamara, & Jarvis, 2011 for r = -.29) and TOEFL proficiency guidelines (e.g., Crossley & McNamara, 2013 for r = -.23). Investigations into the role of collocation use in speaking proficiency is comparatively limited. Kyle and Crossley (2015) examined the predictive power of both single-word and collocation measures for L2 oral proficiency. Among the many indices predicting variance in speaking scores, multiword units (trigram frequency) emerged as the strongest predictor in the model (r = .59), accounting for 35% of the shared variance in holistic TOEFL speaking proficiency scores. Similarly, Eguchi and Kyle (forthcoming) found relatively strong roles of collocation (r = .49) in the context of ACTFL Oral Proficiency Interview responses (for the results using rater judgements of formulaic sequences, see also Boers, Eyckmans, Kappel, Stengers, & Demecheleer. 2006; Stengers, Boers, Housen & Eyckmans, 2011).

From the brief review of the literature presented here, it seems that L2 learners may be judged as more proficient if they employ more common combinations of words in their writing and speech (Durrant & Schmitt, 2009; Kyle & Crossley, 2015). Whereas L2 learners’ formulaic sequences initially comprise more high-frequency collocations, they are likely to increasingly employ more low-frequency collocations in the later stages of L2 development (Garner & Crossley, 2018; Kim et al., 2018). Notably, it appears that the size of the collocation-proficiency link is relatively large in speaking (r = .59 in Kyle & Crossley) compared to writing (r = .10-.30), a difference which can be ascribed to the fact that speech production includes more formulaic and idiomatic expressions than written production (Biber et al., 1999).

Though revealing, the findings in support of the relationship between collocation and L2 speaking (and writing) proficiency need to be interpreted with caution. In such studies, raters first engage in extensive training so that they can provide holistic proficiency scores in accordance with certain descriptors and guidelines (e.g., 0-4 points in TOEFL). As aptly pointed out by Koizumi (2012), such trained raters may pay attention to the lexical features of a text (e.g., collocation), simply because they are asked to do so. It is thus valid to wonder which lexical factors L1 speakers rely on when assessing the global quality of L2 speech in the absence of detailed descriptors.

Examining the generalizability of Crossley and Kyle et al.’s findings on TOEFL Speaking Tasks to more intuitive and subjective judgements of L2 oral proficiency is crucial for expanding our knowledge of the collocation-proficiency link. Many scholars have stressed that it is such human perception that ultimately matters in a real-life communication between L1 and L2 users (e.g., Derwing & Munro, 2015). Given the theoretical, pedagogical and practical importance of the topic (the role of collocation in perceived L2 oral proficiency), the current study was designed to explore the extent to which collocation information relates to L1 judges’ intuitive and subjective judgements of comprehensible and lexically appropriate speech.